>> My name is Jack Matthew and I'm the Manager
of the Installation and Set Up team at Apple
and we're responsible for several things.
The installer obviously from the name, but also set up
assistant which is the first thing after you buy a new Mac
and it asks you for your name and
sets up your first user account.
Also software update for Mac and Windows
and disk utility and a few other things.
So, what are we going to talk about today?
We're going to talk about the best strategy for delivering your
application on Mac OS X and that may be in the disk image
and it may be the a package and we're going to talk about
PackageMaker which is our tool for creating those packages
and finally we're going to talk about some of the new
features in Leopard for the Apple installer and packages.
And we've divided this up into three segments and
to talk about the first, which is choosing a strategy.
going to invite Luke Bellandi, who is our
lea engineer on the OS installer for Mac OS X.
Take it away Luke.
( applause )
>> All right, thanks Jack.
So when you're distributing your software,
you've got a couple of different options
and one of the most important things to
remember is that first impressions count.
While this isn't the first experience
your user's going to have with your software,
it is the first experience they're
going to have with your product.
So you want your installation to
be simple, fast and pleasant.
One of the things you need to consider when considering a
delivery vehicle for your users, is their expertise level
with computers in general, are you working with sort of
a novice computer base, user base, more expert user base
or for example for a product like
iTunes, a really wide range of expertise.
Also, are these people that are
familiar with the Mac platform?
I know a lot of you are Windows developers who are new
to the Mac platform, so you have a lot of familiarity
with programming and computers in general, but
you're not maybe completely clued in to the specifics
of where everything's located on the Mac, things like that.
The second thing to consider when
assessing what kind of delivery vehicle
to use is the content that you're installing.
How many items are you installing?
Is it just a single application?
Do you have additional documentation?
Other media, fonts, graphics, audio?
Where do those items live in the file system?
For example, if you're installing a kernel extension
because you're distributing a new piece of audio hardware,
you'll need to have elevated privileges to
be able to install that kernel extension.
How do you manage that?
And lastly, does the user system have to meet certain
criteria in order for the software to be installed?
Are you using Tiger APIs and therefore do you
want to lock out users from installing on Panther?
So, taking those two things into consideration,
you've got two options for delivering
your software, disk images and packages.
So how do you know which method to use?
Well, disk images lend themselves to
a drag-and-drop install experience.
You've got an application in a disk image
window, the user drags it onto their desktop
or into their applications folder, the install is finished.
This is an installation method that you can consider if
your software is sufficiently contained, self contained
and your user base would prefer a drag-and-drop install.
Otherwise you can use a package-based install.
One thing though is that it is never a
bad idea to use a package-based install.
It's always okay.
Here's an example of a drag-install by a disk image.
It's a single item, one application.
We've got a background graphic giving some instructions
as to how the user needs to perform the install.
The two icons on there, we've got the application
MarsEdit and then we've actually got a SIM link
to the applications folder on the user's system.
So the user doesn't even have to drag out
of this window to perform the install.
The background picture also have some clear instructions.
One thing to note is that the instructions in this case
are in English and if you're distributing an application
with multiple localizations, having text instructions
in the background may not be the right solution.
And this leverages the finder.
So that's a finder window that
has the disk image open in it.
The other option is a package-based install.
Here we've got a screen shot of an iWork '06 install.
If any of you have installed iWork, Final Cut Studio
2, iLife on your Mac, you're probably familiar
with the Mac installer and this
leverage is Installer.app.
So those are some of the things to keep
in mind when you're trying to decide how
to distribute your software to customers.
So let's look at the first of the two.
Disk images.
So what's the user experience like downloading a disk image?
Well, step one they download the disk image.
Step two they open it.
And step three they drag the contents onto their system.
One thing I mentioned earlier is that you may
want to consider that having a specific language
in your background picture, could pose a problem.
What the folk at Firefox have done is made
a localization free background picture
that still instructs the user on
how to install their software.
Pretty cool.
So why disk images?
A disk image is, it's essentially a single file that is a
logical disk so all it ends up being is a compressed file.
So why use a disk image over a tar file or a zip file?
Well let's take a look at some of
the advantages and disadvantages.
Compressed files offer cross-platform
support, disk images don't.
For most of you, we're thinking you're probably going to be
installing applications, drivers, things that are binaries
that are specific to Mac OS X and so that cross-platform
capabilities are probably less interesting to you.
For things like media distributions, audio, video, movies,
certainly a cross-platform solution
like a zip file might make more sense.
Both, both compression mechanism, I'm sorry.
Both delivery vehicles offer compression.
As we saw in the previous two examples,
disk images offer a background picture.
Zip files don't.
Another advantage of disk images is that
they offer a license agreement to users.
On double clicking an image that has a license
agreement tied to it, the user will first be presented
with the license agreement, which they have to agree to,
before the disk image will be opened and presented to them.
Disk images can be Internet enabled.
We'll talk a little bit more about that in a couple slides.
And lastly, disk images are resource Fork-aware,
which if that means something to you that's great.
If it doesn't, don't worry about it.
So what we want you to take away from all of this is
that disk images offer a superior user experience.
Here's an example of the license
agreement sheet that comes down.
This is actually from Firefox.
This comes down when you double click
the disk image for the first time.
If you decline, it won't open the disk image.
So this is a great way to you know, force your users into
a license agreement and keep your legal department happy.
So how do you make a disk image?
Well we've got a command line tool, usr/bin, hdiutil,
it's got a great comprehensive man page.
Go check it out.
The three lines on the bottom of this slide
take us through the creation of a disk image.
The first line creates the disk
image from the folder MyApp.
The second line internet enables it
and the third line compresses it.
We're going to get to Interent enabling in just a couple more.
Advanced hdi util, using the unflattened
command, will expose resources in it
so when you can for example, add a license agreement.
It's a little more complex and there's
documentation on the ADC website on how to do that.
One thing to note, too, is that if you check out
VersionTracker or downloads on Apple.com/macosx,
there is some great third-party GUI tools that make
management of disk image distributions that much easier.
All right, so Internet-enabled disk images.
What it is this?
So the user experience is great.
The user experience is that the user clicks
and disk image download think in Safari.
After the download completes, the contents of the
disk image are available in the downloads folder
and the user had no idea that the
content was archived at all.
It's a great user experience when used with packages.
And the reason for that is that if your
disk image contains a single package,
which Jack will talk about in the next section, packages,
the installer will automatically launch the package.
So the user experience in that case is that the user
goes from clicking a link in Safari to immediately being
in the installer, installing your software.
A couple clicks, next, agree, install and close
and they've got your software on their system.
The implementation details of disk images are
less interesting, but we'll go through them.
The disk image after being downloaded is mounted,
its contents extracted into the parent directory,
the disk image is unmounted and then moved to the trash
and like I just said, the package is automatically opened
if you have a single package in your disk image.
So that's disk images.
I'm going to turn it back over to Jack to talk about packages.
Jack.
( applause )
>> Thank you Luke.
Okay, so packages.
Probably a lot of you are here to learn about the
installer, so that's what we're going to talk about now.
And, but before we do that, a quick little diversion.
So how many of you have come to us from the other platform?
A few, okay, a few, couple of you.
Okay. So when talking about installation
on Windows versus installation on the Mac,
there's really one thing you've got to know, which is
that basically, installation on the Mac is simpler.
For better or for worse.
So we'll talk about for better first.
Generally speaking, you're only
concerned with the installation of files.
There really is not registry to worry
about and kind of along these lines,
you tend to do things like create preferences
files on application first launch and our APIs
and core foundation and Cocoa make it really easy to do that.
Whereas on Windows, for whatever reason, there's much more
of a model of installers installing preferences files.
We tend not to do that on a Mac.
The Mac has the concept of bundles which make it really
easy for you to organize your application binary along
with resources whereas in Windows, you tend to spray a bunch
of files in one place and makes it a little more challenging
to deal with upgrading that software after
the fact because there's the potential
for users to move things around, etcetera.
What's more, we have free and easy to use dev tools.
We're going to show you a PackageMaker in a minute.
But we think it's pretty good and it's gotten substantially
better as of this Leopard release and on Windows,
there are a number of things available,
but they tend to be expensive and large.
We found that in the course of delivering installers
on Windows for our own software, iTunes, etcetera,
that sometimes we run into trouble with things like JScript
and we're actually kind of moving away from using that
and just writing C code to do everything we need.
But on the Mac of course we have the whole suite of
UNIX command line tools and scripting line which is,
in fact we encourage you to use things like Perl
and shell scripts in your install scripts just
to avoid any binary incompatibility issues.
But it's not all good.
It's simpler, because we have fewer features,
notably uninstall and something that probably some
of you are going to ask us about in the Q and A,
but we'll get to that later and what's more,
we don't have a C API for dealing with the installer.
Okay, so let's get back to packages.
So, basic features of the installer are that we
offer a compressed payload and we offer the ability
to present some UI to the user at
various points in the install process.
Throughout the whole process you can have a background
picture that's displayed in the main install window
and we also have a welcome text which is
available upon first launching the package.
A read me which is useful for displaying
things like release notes, etcetera.
A license agreement, obviously we've talked about that.
And conclusion is available which is the final message that
you see upon the quit or restart button being presented
at the end of a file copying process
and that's available in 10.4 or later.
So, let's get to the demo machine here and have
Luke talk about or show to you, a screen saver.
Some, creating a basic package in PackageMaker.
Take it away Luke.
>> All right.
Thanks Jack.
So PackageMaker 3.0 in Leopard.
Let's take a look at it.
Okay, the first thing I need to do when I launch
PackageMaker is provide my organization name.
You can really put anything in here
that you want, it'll accept any string.
The way we do it at Apple and the way we
recommend that you do it is reverse DNS naming
with .pkg after your organization's name.
So if I am working at acme.com,
I'm going to do com.acme.pkg.
the application we're distributing is my MyApp.
So I'm going to put MyApp.
And this app leverages some Tiger APIs.
It is binary, it is compatible with Leopard.
We checked that out and so that's cool,
however we know it doesn't run on Panther,
so we won't allow this to run on Panther.
So that's our minimum target.
So those are the first two things we
need to set up when creating a package.
So we dismiss the sheet there and here's PackageMaker.
For those of you who've used PackageMaker 2.0,
earlier versions of PackageMaker,
you'll notice that we've really moved
to a more work flow oriented interface.
So it's less like a property list editor,
more like Xcode in some ways, really.
So, I've got all of my content over here
and this is actually the first step,
before even launching PackageMaker.
You want to assemble all the content
that you're going to distribute.
So over here in my demo 1 folder, under my build
results I have my application that I want to distribute,
I have a read me file from my documentation department
and I've got a license file from my legal department.
So, given those three things, let's make a package.
So right over here I've got some
instructions drop contents here, all right.
Now we're going to install MyApps, so drag it over.
Cool. Okay.
So MyApp is over here and it's installing the file that
we just dragged over that was on our desktop and it's going
to install it on the user's system in /Applications.
Now PackageMaker makes some good
guesses when you drag files in.
since this has the extension .app, it assumes
that we want to install it in /Applications.
So it'll populate this field automatically.
If you dragged into widget, it would
populate with /library/widgets.
I think there are a few other cases
where it makes smart decisions.
Otherwise it'll just present slash
and you can adjust it as appropriate.
Now, I need to go over here to the
components section and unclick this check box.
We're not going to talk about that right now.
Jack's going to explain about that in a
later portion of the, of the session.
But the next thing we want to do is if we go up to the top
level here, package parameters, we want to edit the interface
because we still have that license
and read me to include in the package.
So this is kind of cool.
I've got a window comes up and it looks a lot like the
installer with the drawer popping out of the right side.
What I can do is click on any of these bullets on the
left hand side of this window and drag in content.
So I'll click on read me because I have a read me
file, let me drag this in and it's just hello world,
we clearly didn't spend a whole lot of time on this one.
( laughter )
But this supports RTF so you can incorporate graphics
and fonts and really do a beautiful presentation here.
License agreement we will drag in as well.
Same thing, supports RTF as well as multiple languages.
So you'll notice down here we've got English.
If I had license agreements in other languages,
I could add them using the plus key over here.
However I don't.
This is an English only release.
So that's that.
So let me close this down.
Now the next thing I want to do is
actually save this PackageMaker document.
Like I said, this is kind of like Xcode and in that
sense, you can actually save your working document
so that you can come back later if you made a mistake
or if you've got version 2.0 of your product
that you need to release and make some adjustments
and rebuild a package without having to go through,
slug through all the steps all over again.
So I'm going to save this as MyAppPackageSpecs
and it'll add a .pmdoc doc extension
and we'll just put it on the desktop to make it easy.
Save that, okay?
Cool, it's right there in the finder.
So I'm ready to go.
I'm going to go ahead and build and run this package.
It'll build it and we'll launch the installer.
So let's see, we'll save it as MyApp on the desktop.
Okay. So welcome to My App installer.
You will be guided through the steps
necessary to install this software.
That's just something the installer puts
in if you don't have a welcome file.
If you did have a welcome file, this
piece would be replaced with that text.
Hit continue.
There's our read me.
Hello world.
We can print or save it if we want.
Continue on, hey, there's our license agreement in
English which is the only language we specified
so it's the only thing available in the pop up.
And I agree, it is in fact a license agreement
because it says it's a license agreement.
That's cool.
All right, so it says it'll take 4 MB of space on
my computer and we remember that this is going to install
in /Applications, so just so you know
that we are not doing any slight of hand here,
I'll show you our applications folder and we'll
organize it by name and let's see, is MyApp in here?
We've got mail and we've got photo booth.
So MyApp is not in here.
Okay, let's shrink this and let's do our install.
Cool. All right, let's close the installer
and let's check the applications folder again.
Probably way at the bottom.
It's going to be MyApp.
So we've just installed it using a package.
And that is a basic package demo.
Let me turn it back over to Jack for
some more advanced features of packages.
Jack.
( applause )
>> Thank you Luke.
Okay. So what Luke showed you is obviously pretty simple.
Yes, we can install simple text.
But let's talk about what we can
do beyond something that simple.
That's pretty much accomplishable with a disk image.
So let's talk about what else we can do.
So, admin authorization.
Obviously if you distributed a disk image that had
two things to install, it would be annoying for a user
to not only have to navigate to two
different locations in the file system,
but then an unprivileged user would say have to drag-
install your font and then drag-install your application
and the fact that we're able to authorize once
in a package installer makes it a lot easier.
So, requirements.
So the installer has the ability to enforce that
certain criteria are met before you're allowed
to proceed through UI and actually install files.
So there are two different hooks that we provide.
One applies for the system as a whole and those checks
are run immediately upon double clicking the package
and the other and we call that
the InstallationCheck mechanism.
The other mechanism is called the VolumeCheck mechanism
and it is run per volume and you can do things like enforce
that a minimum version of the OS is present on the given
partition or that a certain version of another piece
of dependent software is already installed.
So, again we're going to haul Luke back
up here and he's going to show you how
to make some basic requirements using PackageMaker.
Demo machine please.
>> All right.
All right.
Thanks Jack.
Okay, so just for kicks, let's close this
down and sure we'll save our changes.
Okay. Let me throw away the package that
we just made and really throw it away.
Okay. Let me load up my PackageMaker document from before.
Okay, cool.
So it's still got our app in here, it's still
go all of our interface stuff, so great.
You know, I had a chat with my engineering
department though and they told me
that this is pretty hard core text editing application
and actually requires at least eight processors.
So.
( laughter )
We are going to check for the number of CPUs
such that it needs to be at least eight.
And you know what, I don't know what computer
I'm working on so that might actually pass.
We're going to check for sixteen.
( laughter )
And the failure message here, will be you need
at least 16 processors to run this upgrade.
Okay. And we'll just put the same thing in the message.
Okay, we'll save that.
And cool, that's one requirement we
can add and remove more if we need to,
but that's all engineering told me,
so that's all I need to worry about.
Let's save this document again and
build and run the package from it.
Yep, we'll save it as myapp.pkg on the desktop.
Okay, oh, what was that?
My app cannot be installed on this computer.
You need at least 16 processors to run this upgrade.
Okay, so I can't install this at all.
The sheet comes down and my only
option is to close the installer.
There's no way that I can install this on a machine
that the software won't work on, which is great.
You don't want users doing that.
So, let's go back and edit this package
and put in a reasonable requirement.
Double click on this and we'll say that
we need at least two processors and again,
I don't know what kind of machine I'm
running on so this might not work either.
Okay, we'll save the document and
we'll build and run the package.
Let me delete the old package first though.
Yep. Okay.
All right.
So now it's letting me go through like I expected.
The requirements check was run
but it's invisible to the user.
Great user experience if your computer passes the checks.
So that's an example of requirement checks in action.
Let me pass it back over to Jack.
>> Slides please.
Thank you.
Okay, so basic stuff.
Let's get a little more complicated.
So, this is a little screen shot from the Xcode
tools installer, I'm sure you've probably seen this before
and the line items that you see there are what we refer
to in installer parlance as a choice and you'll see
that language choice throughout the PackageMaker UI.
A choice have, choices have a couple of properties.
First of all there is a hierarchy that
you can establish using sub choices
and choices also have an enabled or selected state.
In this example here, the developer tools essentials are
disabled and selected and everything else is enabled but,
only the Dashcode, the reference
library and examples are selected.
I guess we don't want Java API Documentation
installed by default, it's knocked in.
So a couple of things to note about choices is that prior to
10.4, there was a 1:1 relationship between choice
and what you, between choice and package.
Whereas beginning with Tiger, you can have many choices,
you can have many packages associated with a choice
so that you can have a simple UI, but actually install
many packages depending on your packaging needs.
And these enabled and selected states are dynamic.
You can actually write JavaScript to
influence how these behave if, for example,
you want one choice to be enabled only when
another choice is selected, you can do that
and they can have complicated relationships.
We actually designed this to work with the
Final Cut Studio installer which is really huge.
It has hundreds of packages and
really, really complicated UI.
So we're pretty confident that you'll be
able to achieve what you want to achieve.
One note is that prior to 10.4, the
ability to do this is actually quite limited.
It runs tools and looks at the exit
value and it's kind of arcane.
Thankfully PackageMaker shields you from most
of that but if you need to do anything fancy,
you might not be able to do it
and feel free to ask us about it.
We can help you out.
Okay, so custom install.
We're going to bring Luke back up here, go back
to the demo machine and take it away Luke.
>> All right, thanks Jack.
So Steve mentioned yesterday in the keynote that we've got
about sixty seven percent of our user base running Tiger.
So you've noticed probably that in a lot of
the slides we've been talking about features
that are available in 10.4 and later.
So I'm not sure how many of you are sort of concerned
with the versions of Mac OS X you want to support.
But if you're looking to distribute to Tiger and
later customers, you've got a pretty big market.
So in a lot of cases I think it's safe to
stick to those features and leverage them.
So, same thing.
Let's delete our old package and
let's open our PackageMaker document.
Okay, cool.
So one thing we didn't mention when I made the
first package is that by dragging the application
into the sidebar here, it actually created a choice for us.
That's what this line is with the blue bubble
and when we click the disclosure triangle,
it shows us what is in that choice.
So for example, I could have that choice
install an application and a widget.
I don't want to do that so I'll delete that but, I've
also got a couple other things that I want to install.
I've got this widget and I've got some user documentation.
So let me drag those in and PackageMaker is going to make
choices for each of those items and it was real smart
about the widget's thing, it figured
out that it was a widget and it's going
to install it into /library/widgets.
User documentation, it doesn't really know what to do with.
It wants to install it into slash, for
the time being we'll just let it do that.
Let's go take a look at some of
the specifics of the choices.
So clicking on My App choice, gives
us the parameters of the choice
and the initial state here is that
this is selected and enabled.
Well, we figure that if the user install this
package, they want the application for sure.
So we're going to have it selected,
but we're not going to have it enabled.
Meaning that if the user's installed this
package, they have to installed the application.
There's no way around it.
The widget choice, we're going to enable
but we're not going to select by default.
We think maybe most users won't want
the widget, maybe it's a Pro feature.
So we'll leave it enabled so you can select
it, but it won't be installed by default.
And user documentation we want selected and enabled.
We want it installed by default but if folks don't
want to install it, that's cool, they can uncheck the box.
So let's save this and create a package.
MyApp and we're building a package.
Oh, and we got a build error.
So also kind of like Xcode, PackageMaker
will walk you through errors and warnings
that you run into during package creation.
So what did we get?
We have one error, zero warnings.
Distribution title must not be blank.
Okay. And I've got a magnifying glass
icon over here, what does that mean?
What if I click on that?
It actually brings me to the point, it's
to the place in the UI that I need to fix.
( applause )
So, put a string in there, we'll just call it My Application
and now that that's fixed, I'll save the document
and we'll try to build it and run it again
and see if that fixed all our problems.
And it did.
And I need two processors to run this upgrade.
I don't know what that is.
That's hm, hm.
Well, let's go back to the package and I'll
pull that requirement off for the meantime.
We'll save it and delete this and
build and run and cross our fingers.
Okay, great.
So if I continue through, we've got
all our stuff from before, agreed?
I'm going to customize this and sure enough we've
got the changes that we made in PackageMaker.
My App must be installed because, well, that's hard to
read, it's got a disabled check box that is checked.
My widget won't be installed but, I can install it if I want
to so sure why not and user documentation, no I'm a pro.
I don't need that.
So we'll go ahead and perform the install
and it's going to go by really quickly,
but it will say My App installing and My Widget installing.
So see if you can catch it.
My App, My Widget.
Okay. Close and we've installed My App and My Widget and
so that's an example of using choices in the installer.
Let me hand the presentation back over to Jack
Jack.
( applause )
>> Thank you Luke.
Okay, well we have either something wrong with PackageMaker
or something wrong with the demo machine.
But anyhow, okay.
So some more advanced needs you may have.
Relocatable choices, again going
back to the Final Cut Studio example,
it's huge and some of the content actually fills up an
entire DVD and that can fill up your hard drive pretty fast
and so what we have is the notion of being able to relocate
some of that content and we're doing that here via a choice,
which is a relocatable choice and that will actually
reroute all of the contents associated with the choices
that you see below to a different hard drive probably.
Multidisc installation.
So again, Final Cut Studio, it's
six DVDs, DVD nines, quite huge.
So we're pretty sure that it'll work
for ever, for whatever you guys have to do.
Plug-ins. So, if you were to launch the Final Cut
Studio installer pretty early on you'd be presented
with a UI asking you for a serial number.
This is great. It's a good way for users, it's a good thing
for users psychologically because they can kind of take care
of all their set up needs really
early on and be done with it.
But there are a number of caveats when we talk about
plug-ins and extending the installer's UI which is
that first of all, they're not guaranteed to run.
So for the obvious example here is if
you use the command line installer.
Well, there's no serial number entry
of the command line installer.
What's more, you shouldn't be using
the, something like a licensed plug-in
as a real gate keeper for any kind of copy protection.
Because well the users can either go to the command
line or they can go get a tool from VersionTracker
and just rip the contents out of
it and put it wherever they like.
So the thing you should remember is that it's a
nice convenience for the user to have this kind
of a thing implemented as a plug-in,
but you should also do the same thing
in your app and handle it on app first launch.
Finally, there's no integration
between PackageMaker and plug-in.
So, by all means, use PackageMaker,
but at the end of that process,
you're going to have to insert the plug-in
bits into the package after the fact.
Okay, so what happens after you click install?
Upgrades. Upgrades are the notion of the installer examining
the target disk and looking at what it has to install
and it checks for any older versions of that package
and it does that by the identifier of the package.
That stuff that Luke was typing
into the PackageMaker UI up there.
And what it does is it sees if there are any files that are
no longer present in its payload, that are on the disk.
So it will go and do things like for example,
if you no longer support a certain localization,
it'll happily remove all of those localization
files as part of the upgrade process.
A thing to note, this is determined by the bundle identifier
or the package identifier in the case of a flat package,
of the package and so what you don't want to
do is go reusing that same identifier,
because if you're distributing two applications
and they have the same identifier, it'll happily go
and remove all the files associated with
you other application and that's bad.
So, version comparison.
If any of the files that you are installing
happen to already be on the disk,
independent of whether it was packaged
in some other package beforehand,
we will make sure that there isn't already
a newer version of that bundle on the disk
and we don't stomp out any newer versions.
It is overridable in the PackageMaker UI.
If you have individual files that have their
own kind of internal versioning scheme,
it's possible to hand the installer a piece of
code to run to do a version comparison for you.
We have some documentation on that.
We're not going to talk too much about that here.
And of course, pre and post installation scripts can
be run beforehand, after the fact or in both cases,
for any of your packages and the installer will just go and
run a binary but again, we suggest that you use something
like Perl or shell that won't have
any binary incompatibility issues.
Okay, locater.
So you may recall earlier when Luke was doing his
first demo, that he went and unchecked something
and what that something was, was the installer's locater
feature and he did that because in the course of his demo,
had he done that, the installer would have found
the old, the same version of that application
in it's build results folder and upgraded it there.
But this is a useful feature obviously.
If you install any of the OS updates, we do that.
So if you've gone and organized your
applications folder in some specific way,
we go and find those previous
versions and upgrade them in place.
So, cool thing about locater in Leopard is that it's been
enhanced quite a bit and first off, it's easier to use.
You can actually influence how a
locater works through JavaScript.
You can use locater results as search, excuse me, as requirement and
requirement criteria for either the installation as a whole
or for individual choices which is really cool so,
for example, you can say that the user can't proceed
with installation unless locater finds
some old version of your app.
Really handy.
And, along this lines you can also pass the results of
what locater found to a pre or post install script.
Very, very cool.
So that's segues to Leopard new features.
Flat file packages.
That's probably the biggest feature
here and as Luke mentioned earlier,
in Leopard, a flat file is an archive container.
It's the thing you download, it's the
thing you can double click and run.
And because we have this, it's really
easy to get cryptographic signing.
So that's one cool thing.
We have better compression using bz2 and we now have
for flat packages a utility in Leopard called pkgutil
and that allows you to examine
properties of a package that's either
that ever has been installed or
that has yet to be installed.
A few other things.
Home directory installation and binary patch packages.
We actually had binary patch packages a little
while ago, but they were really hard to make
and so finally we have a good UI
around it in the new PackageMaker.
Okay, installer best practices.
Packaging.
So, you should package your software in a modular way.
What I mean by this is that you don't, you probably
don't want to group together your documentation
and your application in the same package.
You probably want to be able to update your
documentation independently and not have
to touch your application that's
already GM'd in some other package.
And this works really well when
you talk about doing upgrades.
And again, along those lines, use a unique identifier for
those packages and you don't have to worry about it too much
if you use PackageMaker because it guides you down the
right path and puts sensible identifiers for packages
and creates individual packages as you drag things into it.
But it's just something to be aware of.
Okay, so if you just remember a few
things, really just use packages.
You can use packages and use PackageMaker to create
them, but if you have a reasonably competent user base
and you're just distributing one thing, a disk image
based drag-install is a pretty good way to go, too.
So, that brings us about to the
end here, but further information.
We have an installer release notes document and
that's probably the single most concise place
to really understand a lot of the nitty gritty details about
the installer document format and how the installer behaves.
There's also a brand new PackageMaker user guide,
which goes over the PackageMaker 3.0
which we've been showing you here.
We have a lab tomorrow from noon
to 3:00 in Lab C and finally,
last year's presentations are actually quite useful.
They go into a lot more detail.
This is really a 50,000 foot
oPverview of what your options are here.
But there's a lot more detail in those
presentations and really all that still is applicable.
So.